## Why the position appeals to me, and how what I have done fits the job description.

A growing number of scientists (mostly younger and early career)
are realising that Doing Science is at least party Creating
Software, and that doing good science involves creating software
to a high standard.  There is only so much that I can
do writing code.  I think it is better to help grow the
community of software-aware scientists, helping them identify
each other, collaborate, and collectively develop best research
software practices.  Excellence in software needs to become part
of the fabric of excellent research.  It will not be possible to
do that by buying in software skills, they have to be grown
within the research community by the research community.
Building the community and helping the community is the
galvanizing change that I look forward too.

The best description of the job (from the 2nd paragraph of the
job advert) is:
"The post holder will be required to write and publish institute case
studies around software and cutting edge research, help organise
workshops and conferences on the topic of software sustainability,
work with external authors to promote their work on the Institute’s
website, co-manage the Institute’s early career fellows, build
relationship with the UK’s network of doctorial training centres
and develop the research area of understanding software in research."

I've already (co-) written case-studies, and one of them appears
in peer reviewed literature; clearly I'll be able to write
institute case studies.  Organising workshops is new to me, but
I expect that my abilities to plan, estimate, and teach will
apply.  The "specific responsibility" is to help organise, and I
can do that.  And then I can organise a workshop with the help
of others (see one, do one, teach one, as they say).  I have
already worked with external authors to collaborate on
scientific papers, I don't think that promoting their work on
the Institute's website will be much different.  Managing the
the Institute's early career fellows will be new to me, but I
have managed the Climate Code Foundations (smaller) network of
mentors and I have managed small software projects.  I enjoy
meeting scientists and discussing how software can make a
valuable contribution to their science.  It is not my job to
reach out to scientists, but I have been doing it because I
think I can help the community of scientists that are willing to
accept software as a part of scientific practice; that will help
when I am building relationships with the doctoral (sic)
training centres.
