David is passionate about software, software engineering, and
addressing the problem of how the software sector can improve
the quality of science research.  David feels that his goals are
well aligned with those of myGrid, The Software Sustainability
Institute (SSI), and a growing community of researchers who perceive a
gulf between what computing resource is capable of, and how researchers
are using it.

David's nearly 20 years of software development in a diverse
range of commerical companies have given him a rock solid basis in
software and software engineering.  He relishes the prospect of using
his knowledge of these skills to energise and strengthen the research
software community.

Communicating software results has often been a part of David's
activities: he has written case studies, website content, and
promoted best practice, in both a professional context and a
personal one.  David has presented work to clients, internally
within a company, and externally at conferences.  David's
writings are sometimes entirely solo efforts, but mostly involve
at least some collaboration at the concept, content, or
editorial level.  David is confident in communicating a variety
of messages in a variety of media.  David tweets (@drjtwit), and
has experimented with automated science communication using
Twitter (@isithotornot, current dormant).

So far for 2013 David is expecting to teach CoffeeScript and
POSIX shell at the FLOSS UK conference in March, and present a
case-study from his work at ScraperWiki.

David has administered a student intern programme at the
non-profit Climate Code Foundation, and mentored students in
that programme and in ad-hoc internship at ScraperWiki Limited.
He expects that this will help him in working with the SSI
Fellows and the Fellows Alumni.

David has built, and continues to build, contacts in the academic
community as part of his work at Climate Code Foundation, meeting and
collaborating with scientists and academic support staff in Canada,
NCDC and NASA in the USA, Edinburgh (specifically, Neil Chue Hong
(Director of SSI), and Mike Jackson), the UK Met Office, the National
Oceanographic Centre.  He will enjoy reaching out to more of the UK HE
community and representing the Software Sustainability Institute.

David has enjoyed attending events similar to ones he would be
helping to organise as a Community Specialist (he met Neil at
one) and looks forward to learning how to organise them.
Recently David has volunteered as a helper at the Software
Carpentry Bootcamp at The University of Edinburgh.

The topic of how software is used in science has been one of the
activities of the Climate Code Foundation; David looks forward
to building upon this work and developing it further,
particularly in a more formal context (such as conferences and
papers).

Case study example: "Loving Old Versions of Python", EuroPython
2009; "Embedded Programming with Python", PyCon UK 2008.

---


Since gaining an undergraduate degree in maths and a
postgraduate Diploma in Computer Science from University of Cambridge,
David has worked in a variety of commercial software companies.
The work has been varied, ranging from writing real-time garbage
collectors, through to 3D video games, robots, programming language
implementation, information retrieval, and most recently
collaborative web-based programming tools.

David was fortunate that his first job, writing garbage
collectors for a dynamic object oriented programming language,
made it crystal clear that commitment to software engineering
would pay off.  In debugging problems with a garbage collector,
one is often debugging the problem well after the ultimate
cause, and with little evidence.  Up front effort in design,
documentation, and ultimately capturing user requirements, was
always worth the saving in avoiding those long nights poring over
hex-dumps.

Making software has always been a collaborative effort,
involving liaison with various groups, sometimes within a
company (internal customers), often with a second party
(contracting, clients), and sometimes with third parties
(sub-contracting, partners, and so on).  In these collaborations
David has held various rôles from support to architect.

David can present proposals, lead discussions, summarise,
pitch, demonstrate, inform, and cajole, using a variety of media from
business cards and napkins, to telephone calls, flipcharts, and slides
made with OmniGraffle and InkScape.  David has presented at work
to colleagues, clients and potential clients, partners, but also
enjoys presenting at conferences such as EuroPython and UKUUG, and
community groups such as PySheff, PyNorthwest, and CamPUG (Sheffield,
Manchester, and Cambridge respectively).

In 2008 David joined the Climate Change blog wars by collaborating
with colleague Nick Barnes on a fully open source project to reimplement
NASA's GISTEMP dataset which is a reconstruction of Earth's
historical global temperature record from surface temperature
observations (weather stations).  The project is called
ccc-gistemp and stemmed from a desire to use our many years'
worth of accumulated skills in software and software engineering
to bring some benefit to climate science and to clarify some
aspects of the public debate.  ccc-gistemp reimplements NASA's
program of a few thousand lines of Fortran, C, shell, and Python
entirely in Python.  The result is smaller, clearer, and more
flexible.  This work has been presented at conferences, and has
resulted so far in one peer-reviewed publication [BARNESJONES2011],
and a number of collaborations with scientists.  All of the work
on ccc-gistemp has been provided pro bono without fee.  The
project can be viewed at https://code.google.com/p/ccc-gistemp/;
it is often the subject of blog posts at http://climatecode.org/.

The success of ccc-gistemp encouraged David to found the non-profit
Climate Code Foundation, along with Nick Barnes and Philippa Davey.
The funding profile of The Foundation has not stopped David
from getting a job in industry, but one of the activities of The
Foundation has been participating in Google's Summer of Code program.
David has written the pitches (The Foundation needs to apply each
year), administered this participation, and has mentored one of the
students (and co-mentored others).  The Foundation has mentored 5
students (a mixture of graduates and undergraduates) over two years,
all of whom successfully completed the programme.

David maintains a personal blog (http://drj11.wordpress.com/),
co-writes The Foundation blog (http://climatecode.org/), helps maintain
ScraperWiki's blog (current employer, http://blog.scraperwiki.com),
and occasionally guest writes for other blogs such as Open
Knowledge Foundation.  Some of this writing is quite technical,
some whimsical, and some scientific.  Most is self-proofed
and edited, but some is edited in collaboration with others.

David's current job is First Engineer for the Silicon
Valley-style startup ScraperWiki based in the Northwest of
England.  He is responsible for all engineering requirements,
implementation, and performance, and works in a small team of 3
people (currently 7 people in the entire company).  In such a
small company everyone does a bit of everything, and we have to
learn how to do new things.  David has built websites,
programmed servers in Python, node.js, CoffeeScript, done
customer discovery, experimented with UX design (under the
careful oversight of ScraperWiki's actual UX designer), and
of-course been instrumental in implementing the industry's
latest software engineering fad, Agile.


REFERENCES

[BARNESJONES2011]
"Clear Climate Code: Rewriting Legacy Science Software for
Clarity"; N Barnes, D Jones; Software, IEEE; Volume 28, Issue 6;
2011-11
